Monitor trends in physical activity.
Monitor trends in the prevalence of overweight and obese Alabamians.
Monitor trends in smoking prevalence.
Provide data for Healthy Alabama 2010 to measure progress toward 2010 objectives.
Determine the prevalence of arthritis and major modifiable risk factors in Alabama for the Alabama Arthritis Control Plan.
Identify groups of Alabamians most at risk for arthritis (the elderly, women, persons with lower educational levels).
Monitor risk factors related to cardiovascular disease in Alabama for the Alabama Cardiovascular Health Plan.
Determine the effectiveness of the Alabama Cardiovascular Health Program, with the help of BRFSS data.
Evaluate success in increasing the percentage of persons with diabetes in Alabama who received flu and pneumonia vaccinations.
Provide prevalence statistics related to bicycle safety and fire safety in Alabama.
Provide public access to a wide range of health indicators through the Informed Alaskans Initiative, a Web-based data dissemination system using InstantAtlas visualization software.
Support the evaluation of the alcohol use interventions among Strategic Planning Framework State Incentive Grant (SPF SIG) grantees.
Provide prevalence rates for the scorecard produced by the Alaska Council on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault.
Track behavioral health issues for the Alaska Mental Health Trust.
Assess the extent of health care access for children and adults for the Alaska Section of Health Planning and System Development.
Support the programs with the Division of Behavioral Health by providing current measures of alcohol use, domestic violence, assessments of mental health, and suicide ideation.
Provide the Alaska Native Tribal Epidemiology Center with regional health data on Alaska natives.
Evaluate the impact of the cancer screening rates for the Alaska Breast and Cervical Health Check Program.
Track compliance with adult immunization recommendations for the Section of Epidemiology.
Assess the impact of social determinants of health on tobacco use to guide cessation efforts.
Assess health disparities among Alaskans with disabilities.
Assist the Alaska Lung Association in tracking the occurrence of asthma.
Provides state leaders with information that helps them evaluate the health of the state population by monitoring chronic diseases, infectious diseases, nutrition, physical activity, obesity, and hospital readmission. These measures help guide the development of legislative proposals and educational interventions.
Contribute to the development of preventive health services and public awareness campaigns. These campaigns are designed to lower the risk of developing chronic disease and to prevent or delay the onset of disease by promoting tobacco-use cessation, a healthy diet, physical activity, and age-appropriate health screenings.
Help the Arizona Department of Health Services (ADHS) assess the results of interventions and programs that target quality of care and promote and protect public health and safety. Specifically, BRFSS data allow the state health department to evaluate health care coverage by income status and household size and the cost of hospitalizing uninsured residents with chronic diseases.
Help the ADHS estimate the number of children vaccinated on schedule in order to report the progress toward Healthy People 2020 goals.
Support the development and maintenance of ADHS programs that benefit child and maternal health.
Helps in the collection of other community-based health data on risk factors such as obesity and overweight, diabetes, and smoking.
Help monitor asthma prevalence in conjunction with smoking status, allowing the ADHS to assess interventions and programs that target smokers who have asthma.
Helped the state monitor the intake of folic acid and awareness of its importance among women of childbearing age and provided findings to outreach programs that support fortifying foods with folic acid.
Provide information on seat belt use as it relates to motor vehicle injuries and unrestrained passengers.
Provide the basis for charts and maps showing county and regional levels of chronic diseases, health behaviors, and risk factors.
Provide training and consulting on biostatistics and data analysis upon request.
Provide standardized data sets combining multiple years of data to researchers within the ADHS and externally.
Help the ADHS evaluate outcomes for several areas that are targeted for improvement in its Strategic Plan/Map.
Conduct public awareness campaigns on the impact of diabetes.
Develop outreach programs for high-risk populations (e.g., minorities) in Arkansas.
Assess the level of satisfaction with health care coverage in the state.
Estimate the burden of heart disease in Arkansas.
Identify health issues at the local level.
Estimate the prevalence of disabilities in Arkansas.
Estimate the prevalence of overweight and obese Arkansans statewide and in minority populations.
Monitor smoke alarm use, maintenance practices, and barriers to installation.
Distribute behavioral risk factor information to the public through the health department publication Arkansas Health Counts.
Assess the correlation between physical activity and hypertension in black women for use by the Governor&rsquo;s Council for Physical Fitness in targeting special intervention and educational programs.
Estimate the burden of diabetes in Arkansas.
Monitor the impact of tobacco control legislation based on Proposition 99.
Assess the quality of life of adult Californians with arthritis in order to focus the California Arthritis Partnership Program resources appropriately.
Assess the prevalence of diagnosed osteoporosis in California in order to target the California Osteoporosis Prevention and Education Program resources most effectively.
Determine gun ownership and storage practices in California.
Estimate potential lead exposure among adults and households with children in California.
Estimate adult and child asthma prevalence in California to help study differences in asthma rates by various demographics.
Evaluate the health care status and the health of uninsured California residents.
Assess alcohol consumption and dependence.
Assess the use of cancer screening tests.
Identify Californians who are at risk for being overweight.
Estimate sun avoidance and protection practices among California&rsquo;s adults and children.
Assess the knowledge of certain sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) in order to target the efforts of STD awareness programs.
Monitor progress toward Healthy People 2010 goals for flu and pneumococcal immunization in California&rsquo;s seniors and high-risk individuals.
Assess differences in health status, health behaviors, and preventive care practices between a racial/ethnic minority population in Denver and the state as a whole.
Assess the burden of arthritis.
Assess tobacco use prevalence, household secondhand smoke exposure, and smoking cessation attempts at county and regional levels.
Monitor the prevalence of diagnosed diabetes and the preventive health practices of persons with diabetes.
Provide data for the Colorado Cardiovascular Health Plan.
Provide data for the Colorado Cancer Coalition state plan.
Provide local behavioral risk factor estimates on the Colorado Health Information Dataset (CoHID), an internet-based queriable data warehouse.
Train nurses and other allied health professionals in basic epidemiologic and biostatistical concepts.
Create a screening index that measures the percentage of men and women in various age groups who have had all screenings recommended for their age and gender.
Monitor the quality of care provided under contracts with community health centers using the index.
Identify demographic groups and areas of the state that may be at increased risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) based on BRFSS data related to prevalence rates for the six major CVD risk factors or patterns of CVD risk factors.
Develop training for health professionals using state information on CVD risk factors.
Trigger a study in community health centers, school-based health centers, and other health care providers on medical chart documentation of treatment and follow-up activities related to overweight and obesity.
Monitor the impact of bicycle helmet legislation.
Determine the prevalence of visual impairment in Connecticut and identify high-risk groups.
Develop an ad hoc group of partners (Board of Education, Services for the Blind, the Hispanic Health Council, Prevent Blindness Connecticut, optometrists, community health centers, Lions Clubs, and Diabetes Program staff) to address high rates of visual impairment in the Connecticut Hispanic population.
Support the creation of a provider education program on arthritis (for nonphysicians) based on BRFSS data that showed a high prevalence of undiagnosed or self-diagnosed arthritis.
Provide baseline data and tracking for 11 of 13 objectives in the Healthy Delaware 2010 plan.
Provide baseline data to the Delaware Health Fund and subsequently obtain funding to address physical activity and healthy nutrition.
Develop a social marketing campaign for physical activity, the Get Up and Do Something campaign.
Provide BRFSS data to support the efforts of the state&rsquo;s new Lieutenant Governor&rsquo;s Challenge for physical activity, and for a statewide strategic planning process for physical activity and healthy nutrition.
Provide BRFSS data for a 2002 report on the burden of diabetes in Delaware.
Monitor the impact of diabetes in Delaware and support the efforts of the Diabetes Prevention and Control Program.
Estimate the prevalence of cancer rates in Delaware and develop a report showing that the rates are higher than the national average.
Provide data to Governor Ruth Ann Minner&rsquo;s Advisory Council on Cancer Incidence and Mortality, which issued its report in April 2002.
Used BRFSS data to support several recommendations of the Advisory Council on Cancer Incidence and Mortality.
Provide BRFSS data to the Division of Public Health to support their efforts to develop comprehensive cancer prevention and screening programs.
Support the Tobacco Prevention and Control Program in tracking prevalence and attitudinal data needed to assess progress in meeting the objectives of the state tobacco control plan.
Generate prevalence estimates for the Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program for a comprehensive overview of health behaviors related to breast and cervical cancer screening in the District.
Provide information for the District of Columbia State Health Plan.
Provide baseline data for the Tobacco Control Program for presentations, educational awareness programs and technical assistance to community organizations.
Assess the impact of screening programs and serve as the basis for evaluating the effectiveness of those programs for the District of Columbia Cancer Registry.
Provide baseline data to the Diabetes Program that was used to produce diabetes fact sheets, write a comprehensive surveillance report, apply for various grants, and write reports for policymakers.
Provide data on progress toward Healthy People 2010 and Florida State Health Plan 1999&ndash;2003 objectives in the areas of physical activity, Pap smear and mammography use, hypertension, obesity, fatty food consumption, HIV/AIDS, cholesterol, alcohol abuse, and smoking.
Monitor the prevalence of cancer screening in high-risk populations for the Florida Cancer Control and Research Advisory Council.
Document the need for and monitor the progress of prevention programs targeting smoking during pregnancy, cancer, and hypertension.
Conduct a pilot project in a five-county region in northeast Florida to promote physical activity and healthy nutrition.
Estimate the prevalence of health risk factors of Duval County residents.
Determine the prevalence of asthma among respondents who were employed at the time of the BRFSS survey.
Provide data for diabetes disease management indicators as measures of progress toward objectives of the Diabetes Control Program.
Monitor the prevalence of overweight and obese adults in Florida.
Monitor the prevalence of adult smoking behaviors and home/work environmental tobacco smoke exposure.
Monitor adult nutrition and physical activity behaviors.
Provide data for program planning, evaluation, and general reports.
Report physical activity levels in each of Georgia&rsquo;s 159 counties and estimate the overall burden of inactive and irregularly active lifestyles on deaths, hospitalizations, and hospital charges for related health conditions.
Highlight the public health burden of arthritis in the state, address disease awareness, and compare Georgians with and without arthritis in terms of health status, employment, inactivity, and weight.
Provide a scientific basis for collaboration among public and private medical providers to reduce cancer-related illness and death through behavioral change and improved screening and detection.
Collect baseline information on the prevalence of disease and screening in support of the state&rsquo;s osteoporosis prevention initiative.
Support behavioral risk factor surveillance in health districts in the state that have initiated their own population surveys.
Provide empirical data about physical activity, nutrition, and smoking risk behaviors.
Generate data for the legislature on the need for and effectiveness of disease prevention and health promotion programs.
Provide data to the Hawaii Outcomes Institute to develop community health profiles and report this information to the legislature and the state department of health.
Provide prevalence data to State Department of Health programs (e.g., immunization, breast and cervical cancer, diabetes, tobacco control, physical activity, and nutrition) for use in tracking trends and patterns, planning, and preparing grant applications.
Make data available to students and university researchers who use the BRFSS for research papers and health projects.
Make data available to marketing companies that use BRFSS information to do research on prospective customers with specific health needs.
Track Healthy People 2010 objectives.
Provide data to native Hawaiian health organizations, community nonprofits, and ethnic groups for program planning and health advocacy.
Document the need for and monitor the progress of prevention programs targeting chronic diseases, poor nutrition, tobacco use, alcohol use, drug use, and radon awareness.
Provide data to Idaho&rsquo;s seven public health districts.
Enable local health departments to determine behavioral health priorities by providing local and state data for comparative purposes.
Provide health data relevant to two legislative measures: smoking and mammography.
Document the need for and monitor progress of prevention programs targeting breast cancer, drinking and driving, and failure to use seatbelts.
Monitor statewide progress toward Healthy People 2010 objectives in tobacco use, cardiovascular disease, weight, physical activity, fruit and vegetable consumption, breast and cervical cancer, and immunization.
Produce educational materials for many audiences to increase awareness of Indiana&rsquo;s health status.
Use data from the arthritis module and core questions to help the Indiana Arthritis Foundation plan interventions for people diagnosed with or at risk for arthritis.
Analyze major risk factors for cardiovascular disease and compare county versus state disease mortality for selected counties.
Share information and results of analyses with programs that plan interventions for cardiovascular disease.
Analyze 10 years of data on the demographics and the risk factor status of pregnant women in Indiana and compare data with that of other women of childbearing age.
Compare information on smoking and alcohol use from birth certificates with BRFSS data to give the state a way to judge the validity of birth certificate data.
Assess the burden of asthma in the state.
Inform the Iowa legislature about projected increases in numbers of mammograms for high-risk women for use in budgeting considerations.
Develop statewide, county-by-county synthetic prevalence estimates of various risk factors.
Provide baseline data for a comprehensive cancer control program.
Assess disease burden and other data related to the diabetes control program.
Provide disease burden and other data related to the asthma program.
Estimate the prevalence of problem gambling from state-added BRFSS questions.
Provide data to the cardiovascular health program on overweight, physical activity, and other risk measures.
Provide prevalence data to the disability program.
Provide baseline data for developing and funding applications of various health programs.
Meet the needs associated with addressing legislative questions, funding applications, program planning, evaluations and health promotion presentations.
Plan and evaluate program interventions, state plan updates, policy making, and raising public awareness, as needed by The Kansas Diabetes Control, Arthritis Control, Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention, Comprehensive Cancer Control Program, Tobacco Use Prevention, Injury Prevention and Control, Disability, Immunization, Oral Health, Mental Health, Healthy Communities and Healthy Kansans 2020 programs and partners.
Provide data to the Kansas Breast and Cervical Cancer Program for use in estimating the number of women needing breast or cervical cancer screening, access to services, and use of services by region.
Establish baseline indicators related to breast, cervical, and colorectal cancer screening for the Kansas Cancer Prevention and Control Plan 2012&ndash;2016.
Highlight disparities in the prevalence of breast, cervical and colorectal cancer screening behaviors among population subgroups in the Burden of Cancer in Kansas 2012 document.
Report program progress to CDC and in news releases, such as how The Tobacco Use Prevention Program used tobacco use indicators (smoking and smokeless) and the data to develop a report, fact sheets, and educational material.
Determine long-term outcome measures and justify their activities (The Chronic Disease Risk Reduction Program).
Prepare grant applications, press releases, fact sheets and reports on SMART data, state level diabetes data, and diabetes related health disparities data in response to partners&rsquo; requests (The Kansas Diabetes Control).
Update the state plan and prepare grant applications, press releases for World Salt Awareness Week, and local data reports to assist local partners in their public health efforts. (Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention).
Prepare short reports and fact sheets (e.g., Arthritis and Falls; Arthritis and Work; Arthritis and the Built Environment) and presentations at the WorkWell Kansas meetings in Lawrence and Wichita, KS entitled, &ldquo;The Evidence-Based Worksite Wellness.&rdquo; (The Arthritis Control Program).
Build partnerships within communities that could benefit from arthritis-related data (Chronic Disease Self-Management Program leaders and partners).
Develop grant applications; press releases; presentations on Epidemiology of Kansas Injuries, Children Safety Initiative Conference, Fall-related injuries in South Central Kansas&rsquo; Trauma Region; reports about sexual violence; and reports on the health of veterans in Kansas (Injury Prevention and Control).
Write grants; conduct community health assessments; develop reports, fact sheets, program brochures, press releases, health education material, program progress reports, program evaluation reports, legislative testimonies and educational material for policy makers.
Inform and support sessions of the Kansas Evidence-based Public Health Course, designed (in collaboration with Dr. Ross Brownson) for public health professionals in Kansas.
Describe the current status of overweight/obesity, physical activity and nutrition in the Obesity, Physical Activity and Nutrition in Kansas 2013 report.
Provide data to public health organizations, including local health departments, for use in seeking funds and in program development and evaluation.
Monitor chronic disease, injury and disability program outcomes to evaluate the effectiveness of health promotion activities.
Create Kentucky Area Development District (ADD) Profiles that has Kentucky-specific BRFSS data not available on the CDC Web site.
Oversample the African-American population in Kentucky, to identify healthcare needs.
Conducted a different mode of survey implementation using a face-to-face method of interviewing; Interviewed the Hispanic residents living in 12 Kentucky counties; 1,500 completes were collected. This is the first time that population-level data have been collected from this group in 2012.
Create a State Plan for Coordinated Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion.
Identify 8 pilot sites in Kentucky for implementation of the asthma program initiative.
Assess the status of the diabetes care system in Kentucky.
Monitor trends in smoking prevalence in Kentuckians and use findings to support changes in tobacco-related policies.
Create a Kentucky State Health Assessment report in preparation for accreditation of the Kentucky Department for Public Health.
Provide data for reports such as Tobacco Use in Kentucky, 2012 (by KY Tobacco Prevention and cessation Program); Place Matters: Health Disparities in the Commonwealth (by The Foundation for a Healthy Kentucky); Kentucky Asthma Surveillance Report (by KY Asthma Program).
Provide data on women&rsquo;s health to Division of Women&rsquo;s Health for the completion of Region IV network&rsquo;s Data Management and Utilization (RNDMU) Data Book.
Assist organizations like the Alzheimer&rsquo;s Association in Kentucky, which uses the data for planning state and local services; implementing and targeting risk-reduction efforts; improving care and treatment; and informing the public, policymakers, and health professionals. Also: Foundation for a Healthy Kentucky uses the data to make county-level data available on its Web site.
Guided the oral health program and the Health Care Access Branch as they worked on improving oral health access to Kentuckians in a collaboration with the federal partner (HRSA) and state partners such as the Kentucky Dental Association (KDA), the Kentucky Medical Association (KMA), and the Kentucky Hospital Association (KHA).
Provide the immunization program with vaccination coverage rates needed to guide allocation of program funds and educational resources.
Helped the colon cancer program identify geographic regions that would benefit from provider-specific education and regions that would benefit from improved patient medical knowledge, in order to improve overall screening rates of colon cancer and to reduce some of the existing barriers to screening.
Assisted the Kentucky Injury Prevention and Research Center (KIPRC) estimate the prevalence of dermatitis in Kentucky and to determine if the dermatitis led to change in job duties or job loss.
Provided information for the arthritis program to use in a presentation at the University of Kentucky&rsquo;s Summer Series for Aging.
Educate EMS and firefighters (as a targeted intervention of the Cardiovascular Health program in Kentucky).
Present results and trends to various stakeholders and decision-makers across the state as well as make oral- and poster presentations at national conferences to share Kentucky-specific findings.
Provide data to other state programs and external stakeholders for grant applications, strategic planning meetings, program evaluation, progress reports, and fact sheets.
Provide data for Healthy Kentuckians 2020 to measure progress toward 2020 objectives.
Document the association between lack of health insurance or inadequate health insurance, selected risk factors, and use of clinical preventive services.
Plan and monitor programs and policies concerning health issues that include breast and cervical cancer screening and worksite physical activity.
Comply with legislatively mandated health assessments (health report cards) and respond to legislative inquiries.
Educate managed care organizations about the need for prevention programs on nutrition, tobacco use, and physical activity.
Evaluate the status of women&rsquo;s health in Maine.
Provide data for Women&rsquo;s Health: A Maine Profile 2001.
Develop and monitor indicators for Maine&rsquo;s Comprehensive Cancer Control Plan.
Develop health profiles for 10 of Maine&rsquo;s 16 counties.
Support implementation of the Maine Partnership for a Tobacco-Free Maine by providing data and training on data use.
Assess the burden of chronic disease in Maine.
Document the need for and monitor the progress of prevention programs targeting breast and cervical cancer.
Help determine priorities for Healthy Maryland 2010.
Incorporate data into Maryland&rsquo;s Health Improvement Plan.
Provide data on behavioral health risk behavior to assist decision makers in allocating funds from the tobacco settlement.
Provide data to the Governor&rsquo;s Task Force to End Smoking in Maryland and the Task Force to Conquer Cancer.
Provide data to help local health departments establish priorities on smoking, Pap tests, mammograms, diabetes, obesity, and high blood pressure treatment.
Create a profile of cancer screening needs as part of the Maryland Cancer Control Plan.
Determine priorities for cardiovascular disease interventions by analyzing data on smoking, diabetes, obesity, treatment and measurement of high blood pressure, and consumption of fruits and vegetables.
Identify trends (1990-2000) in health characteristics and risk factors for Massachusetts residents.
Assess the health issues of Hispanic residents in Massachusetts during 1997-2001.
Provide information for a series of short reports on important health topics.
Estimate the intake of calcium supplements in Massachusetts women.
Provide information for A Profile of Health Among Massachusetts Adults, 1999.
Document the health status of residents in four cities in Massachusetts.
Provide data for a report that compares the health of Massachusetts residents with that of the U.S. population.
Assess the burden of disability in Massachusetts.
Provide data to support the development of policies and recommendations for tobacco control.
Provide information to the Bureau of Substance Abuse and Services and the Massachusetts Tobacco Control Program for use in program development.
Provide information for developing policies on the availability of flu vaccinations.
Provide data to the HIV/AIDS Bureau to inform the development of policies and practices on needle exchange programs.
Evaluate the effectiveness of public health programs, including the Osteoporosis Awareness Program, the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program, and the Diabetes Awareness Program.
Provide data for presentations and publications on health issues in Massachusetts.
Provide data to the media on current health issues in the news.
Support research and grant applications.
Provide information to local health departments, other public health organizations, and the medical community.
Document the need for and monitor the progress of prevention programs targeting tobacco use and breast and cervical cancer.
Provide data to the Michigan Department of Community Health for use in developing, implementing, and evaluating statewide programs to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease.
Provide data to the Michigan Department of Community Health for use in developing, implementing, and evaluating statewide asthma programs.
Monitor data relevant to the primary enforcement of seat belt laws.
Provide a basis among numerous Michigan Department of Community Health programs for program planning and evaluating, establishing program priorities, developing policies, assessing trends, shaping legislation, and addressing emerging public health issues.
Provide health behavior data that are included within Michigan&rsquo;s Health and Wellness Dashboard.
Inform local public health departments, academic institutions, and non-profit organizations as they secure funding for the development of public health programs, establish local public health policies, and access county-level trends in chronic conditions and health behaviors.
Provide BRFSS estimates to report on several indicators included within the Michigan Critical Health Indicators Report.
Establish progress benchmarks toward several of the goals addressed by the Michigan Cancer Consortium.
Helped gauge the public response to the Dr. Ron Davis Smoke Free Air Law that was put into effect in May of 2010.
Provide data on current tobacco use to inform initiatives to prevent and reduce tobacco use in Minnesota.
Plan and evaluate Minnesota public health goals.
Assess exposure to environmental health risks in the home from lead, asbestos, radon, and well-water contamination.
Monitor the use of preventive health services and the prevalence of chronic conditions to evaluate the effectiveness of intervention strategies.
Provide information for the 2000 Mississippi State of the Heart Report.
Provide information for the 2000 Mississippi Stroke Report.
Provide data for the publication Physical Activity in MS 2001: A Report Card (Governor&rsquo;s Commission on Physical Fitness and Sports).
Assess the relationship between neural tube defects and folic acid knowledge and use in Mississippi women.
Support the need for better asthma surveillance in Mississippi.
Monitor progress toward Healthy People 2010 objectives.
Assess the burden of diabetes in Mississippi.
Estimate the prevalence of tobacco use in Mississippi.
Provide data for grant applications, funding proposals, and presentations.
Provide data to various programs to assist in development, policy support, and evaluation.
Provide data for reports such as the State of Missourians&rsquo; Health.
Identify population groups exhibiting the greatest prevalence of chronic diseases, conditions, and risk factors.
Determine access to health care and utilization of preventive services.
Monitor progress in meeting objectives established for health programs and services.
Provides key data for assessing the burden of several chronic diseases under the Coordinated Chronic Disease grant for development of Montana&rsquo;s Chronic Disease State Plan.
Aids the burden assessment of arthritis in the state and helped to secure program support for Montana&rsquo;s arthritis program.
Provided valuable benchmark data for Montana&rsquo;s State Health Assessment and Montana&rsquo;s State Health Improvement plans.
Monitors use of seatbelts and assesses traffic safety issues and is used to evaluate the efficacy of public education programs.
Assesses health screening practices among adults as well as supports efforts for health promotion and disease-prevention regarding immunization, cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular, and HIV.
Provides valuable data for community health assessments and public health accreditation processes throughout the state.
Document the need for and monitor the progress of prevention programs targeting breast and cervical cancer.
Identify populations at high risk for diabetes and assess the health behavior of these populations to support intervention program development.
Provide risk behavior statistics to several health and human services systems agencies to support program development and evaluation.
Produce the Washoe County Health District Report Card, which reports on the county&rsquo;s progress toward Healthy People 2010 objectives.
Teach students at the University of Nevada, Reno about the health status of Nevada&rsquo;s citizens.
Teach economic students at the University of Nevada, Reno the basics of data analysis and provide experience with database manipulation and management.
Plan educational interventions and design prevention materials for diabetes control in Nevada.
Provide data to the Bureau of Alcohol and Drug Abuse in the Nevada Health Division in order to identify areas of high rates of chronic and binge drinking, and attempt to predict met and unmet treatment needs.
Provide information to help with resource allocation decisions regarding drug and alcohol treatment modalities to be funded.
Provide data relevant to budget requests to the Nevada legislature by the Bureau of Alcohol and Drug Abuse in the Nevada Health Division.
Assess the prevalence of drinking and driving relative to numbers of DUI arrests and accident rates.
Provide data for program development and educational intervention campaigns for cervical, breast, prostate, and colon cancer.
Plan interventions and design educational materials for the HIV/AIDS program in Nevada.
Provide data related to funding applications in various program areas.
Provide data for publications from the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services and from organizations outside of the department.
Provide data for the Bureau of Health Statistics and Data Management&rsquo;s 2001 publication Cancer Incidence and Mortality in New Hampshire, 1998.
Provide data for the report New Hampshire Tobacco Data, 2001 prepared by the New Hampshire Tobacco Prevention and Control Program.
Assess the burden of diabetes in New Hampshire.
Examine patterns of health care use among people with diabetes in New Hampshire.
Provide data for a book on the problem of drug, alcohol, and tobacco abuse in New Hampshire.
Provide data to the New Hampshire Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program for a report presented to the New England Lead Coordinating Committee, a coalition of federal, state, and local government and nongovernmental agencies.
Provide data to New Hampshire health promotion programs for grant applications.
Assess the asthma burden in New Hampshire.
Provide results of an analysis of osteoporosis data to the New Hampshire Osteoporosis Advisory Council, a panel of local practitioners, health educators, a legislator, and health department staff.
Provide data for Healthy New Hampshire 2010 to monitor progress toward 2010 objectives.
Provide information to two U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Region I initiatives: the Asthma Regional Council surveillance subcommittee and the Leading Health Indicators workgroup.
Assess differences in health behaviors between minority and non-minority groups.
Provide the scientific basis for developing Healthy New Jersey 2010 objectives for diabetes.
Assess and report on the burden of diabetes in New Jersey.
Evaluate the effectiveness of diabetes interventions.
Measure progress toward goals related to the leading health indicators.
Provide data to the Interagency Council on Osteoporosis for use in developing a strategic plan.
Provide detailed statistics to the state Women, Infants, and Children Program on attitudes toward breast feeding.
Develop reports on health issues for the publication Topics in Health Statistics.
Assess the burden of asthma in New Jersey.
Provide detailed information on arthritis in New Jersey in a 50-page report, New Jersey: Findings from the New Jersey Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System.
Develop a fact sheet for the New Jersey Advisory Council on Arthritis to share with the state legislature.
Provide data for Healthy New Jersey 2010: A Health Agenda for the First Decade of the New Millennium.
Evaluate progress toward state and national Healthy People 2010 objectives.
Assess the burden of cancer in New Jersey.
Provide data for the development of intervention programs on immunization and tobacco control.
Monitor the health status of New Mexico residents for the Vision of Health mission.
Monitor various programs&rsquo; progress toward state performance objectives and outcomes.
Estimate the prevalence and distribution of disability in New Mexico.
Provide information to the Disability Health Advisory Council to establish the need for programs on preventing conditions secondary to disability and to justify funding for such programs.
Estimate the prevalence and distribution of arthritis.
Provide data to the Arthritis and Osteoporosis Programs of the Department of Health to estimate the need for services, education, and training workshops on living with arthritis, and to justify funding for such programs.
Provide BRFSS data for the New Mexico State of Health Report, a biannual Department of Health publication.
Estimate the prevalence of health care coverage for the state&rsquo;s adult population.
Provide data for program planning to the Environmental Epidemiology Unit, the Injury Prevention &amp; Emergency Medical Services Bureau, the Chronic Disease Control &amp; Prevention Bureau, the Border Health Office, and the Family Health Bureau.
Demonstrate the prevalence of disability and the care received by the elderly population in New York State.
Provide information to the New York State Office for Aging.
Monitor the effectiveness of the Performance Outcomes Measures Project, a national demonstration project funded by the Administration on Aging in response to a congressional mandate of the Government Performance Results Act.
Provide measures for hypertension, high cholesterol, tobacco use, poor nutrition, physical inactivity, obesity, and diabetes to support program planning for the Cardiovascular Disease Program and for local health department&rsquo;s independent initiatives.
Support efforts of the Tobacco Control Program to reduce smoking prevalence in youth and adults, prevent initiation of smoking in youth, reduce exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, and reduce disparities in tobacco use among affected groups.
Provide data to the Tobacco Control Program, BRFSS and state and local programs to use in program planning.
Provide data on adult tobacco use for an independent evaluation of the Tobacco Control Program.
Support a grant application to monitor oral health status risk factors and use of oral health services.
Provide data to the Bureau of Sexually Transmitted Disease Control (STD) to assess and monitor STD behavioral risks in New York State.
Provide baseline statistics and impact evaluation measures for the Diabetes Surveillance and Evaluation Program to monitor progress toward the six national diabetes objectives proposed by the CDC.
Provide data for various quarterly reports, annual summary reports, and funding continuation applications.
Highlight the prevalence of sedentary lifestyle among North Carolina adults and promote the development of a statewide physical fitness campaign.
Provide data for the North Carolina Prevention Report Card and Women&rsquo;s Health Report Card.
Determine the prevalence of disability and activity limitations among North Carolina adults.
Describe demographic, behavioral, and quality of life characteristics of North Carolina adults with disabilities.
Determine diabetes preventive care knowledge and practices among North Carolina adults with diabetes, and describe the impact of diabetes on cardiovascular disease burden in North Carolina.
Plan public health programs.
Set disease prevention and health promotion priorities.
Enhance chronic disease surveillance systems.
Inform the media, public health professionals, state department heads, and the public of health behaviors that may lead to disease, disability, or death.
Provide data to inform public health policies relating to safety belt use, tobacco control, and oral health.
Develop state plans for cancer, diabetes, and tobacco control programs.
Document the need for and monitor the progress of comprehensive cancer prevention and control programs, including breast and cervical cancer prevention and early detection programs.
Establish prevention interventions and evaluations for smoking prevention and cessation programs.
Develop initiatives for injury prevention, including safety belt use and binge drinking prevention.
Generate initiatives for cardiovascular disease prevention and control.
Develop initiatives for the Ohio Rural Health Program.
Develop a statewide Healthy Ohioans, Healthy Communities campaign.
Establish initiatives to address health disparities.
Develop initiatives for diabetes prevention and control programs.
Generate initiatives for an arthritis intervention plan.
Provide data and small area analyses to city and county health departments for health promotion and risk reduction initiatives.
Prepare State of the State&rsquo;s Health reports for 1997 and 1998.
Monitor statewide progress toward Healthy Oklahomans 2010 objectives.
Prepare articles for the Journal of the Oklahoma State Medical Association on smoking and prevalence of overweight.
Prepare profiles of county health status indicators for Oklahoma&rsquo;s 77 counties.
Monitor the progress of prevention programs targeting breast and cervical cancer.
Document the impact of tobacco use in Oregon, resulting in media attention and greater public awareness of the problem.
Assess household gun storage safety practices.
Assess risk of exposure to rabies based on bat sightings and captured bats in households.
Identify issues related to quality of life.
Formulate annual cardiovascular risk reduction program plans and assess behavior changes over time.
Monitor diabetes trends over time and develop program interventions.
Monitor cancer trends over time, develop program interventions, and produce media campaigns.
Develop annual program plans and identify emerging issues in injury prevention.
Support findings from a statewide oral health needs assessment indicating that low income and educational status is linked to increased oral disease.
Evaluate adult educational programs designed to address oral health issues.
Assess progress toward Healthy People 2010 objectives for osteoporosis, arthritis, and asthma.
Adjust arthritis and asthma intervention programs on a regional or population basis.
Adjust asthma and arthritis program planning and priorities.
Compare Pennsylvania with other states on progress toward Healthy People 2010 objectives.
Develop annual osteoporosis program plans, refine public health education and promotion programs, and measure behavioral changes over time.
Determine that the prevalence of diabetes in Puerto Rico is the highest in the surveyed states and territories.
Develop intervention programs to prevent secondary complications from diabetes.
Identify unmet health-related needs in Puerto Rico.
Plan public health programs.
Evaluate the impact of community health improvement efforts.
Provide data for programs in the Puerto Rico Department of Health to use in grant applications.
Estimate the percentage of Puerto Ricans who are at risk for contracting HIV.
Provide information on HIV risks and tobacco use to the media.
Develop a campaign on the importance of dietary folic acid intake for women of childbearing-age and expectant mothers.
Develop a campaign to increase consumption of fruits and vegetables.
Develop strategies for health care providers to address issues of patient overweight and lack of exercise.
Inform public policy on physical activity.
Assess the health-related quality of life of Puerto Ricans.
Establish baselines and targets for Leading Health Indicator objectives related to Healthy Rhode Islanders, Year 2010.
Disseminate information on women&rsquo;s health through the Office of Women&rsquo;s Health website, conference presentations, and a health policy brief on women&rsquo;s health.
Provide data for testimony to the state Senate Commission on Oral Health Access.
Assess the status of tobacco use in the state.
Educate on public health information for the state&rsquo;s legislature and finance committee discussions on the use of tobacco settlement funds.
Measure access to primary and dental health services, especially for the poorest and most vulnerable populations statewide.
Track the prevalence of Rhode Islanders who have no health insurance.
Monitor influenza and pneumococcal immunization rates.
Allocate resources within the Adult Immunization Coalition and track the progress of interventions, build coalition support, and address immunization issues on a regional level.
Determine anticipated vaccine shortfall.
Characterize the burden of asthma in Rhode Island and identify high-risk groups in support of asthma intervention activities.
Identify behaviors, knowledge, and attitudes that place individuals at higher risk for contracting HIV.
Predict future trends in the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
Provide data for the annual Comprehensive Plan for HIV Prevention.
Track cancer prevention behaviors.
Update Rhode Island&rsquo;s breast and cervical cancer control report cards.
Monitor the health burden of obesity and related chronic disease in Rhode Island.
Monitor related health risk behaviors of diet and physical activity.
Revise baseline and target measures for objectives in the Rhode Island Strategic Diabetes Control Plan.
Measure the impact of the diabetes media campaign.
Support development and evaluation activities in the Disabilities Prevention Program.
Provide data for funding applications of health department programs.
Provide data for scientific reports and publications.
Identify the prevalence of a sedentary lifestyle as a significant risk factor in South Carolina.
Provide data to inform program and policy efforts for physical activity at the community level.
Strengthen and promote communication and collaboration among agencies and organizations to support community efforts to improve health.
Provide data to inform educational and environmental policy development.
Assess progress toward South Dakota Department of Health 2020 key performance measures, which includes obesity, physical activity, vegetable intake, smoking, and colorectal cancer screening.
Increase general public awareness of health matters through reports, publications, and responses to media inquiries.
Provide resources used extensively by programs addressing tobacco use, diabetes, physical activity and nutrition, and children&rsquo;s health insurance.
Provide baseline data on and monitor progress toward state and national Year 2010 objectives in the areas of mammography use, colorectal cancer screening, smoking, sedentary lifestyle, excess weight, and seat belt use.
Document the need for and monitor the progress of prevention programs, including those for prevention services, HIV/AIDS, and maternal and child health activities.
Develop the annual report on statewide progress for local health agencies and policy makers.
Determine the prevalence of risk behaviors related to chronic diseases.
Provide data on progress toward Healthy People 2010 and Texas Healthy People Year 2010 objectives in the areas of physical activity, Pap smear and mammography use, hypertension, obesity, fatty food consumption, HIV/AIDS, alcohol abuse, and smoking.
Document the need for and monitor the progress of prevention programs, including those targeting tobacco use and breast and cervical cancer.
Provide data on the achievement of the Healthy People 2000 objectives and progress toward Healthy People 2010 and Utah health objectives.
Enhance Utah&rsquo;s web-based Indicator-Based Information System for Public Health and query system.
Assess needs, and develop and implement programs community health education programs and school health programs on cardiovascular disease prevention.
Evaluate and disseminate program results, and write grant proposals and status reports.
Study emerging issues in the areas of diabetes, arthritis, adult immunizations, pregnancy risk factors, childhood exposure to tobacco smoke, health insurance coverage for tobacco cessation, physical activity, and nutrition.
Provide combined cardiovascular disease risk factor data for Utah, California, and Nevada for the American Heart Association.
Provide data and assistance to the American Cancer Society, Rocky Mountain Division for its annual Cancer Facts &amp; Figures publication.
Analyze trends in BRFSS measures over time for Utah, the states bordering Utah and the nation and look at differences among demographic groups in Utah by combining several years of Utah BRFSS data.
Provide data for women&rsquo;s health issues to national and regional women&rsquo;s health offices.
Report risk factor estimates for each of Utah&rsquo;s 12 local health districts.
Provide information to state and local government officials for public policy planning, decision making, and evaluation.
Develop press releases about public health issues such as the increased percentage of overweight/obese adults and the low percentage of adults age 50 and over who have had recommended colorectal cancer screening.
Identify Utah adults with doctor-diagnosed arthritis or chronic joint symptoms to request their participation in a follow-up survey for the Utah Arthritis Program.
Provide information about the prevalence of cancer risk factors and use of cancer screening tests in Utah to develop the Utah Comprehensive Cancer Control Initiative Plan.
Prepare for a summit meeting titled Dialogue for Action: Impacting Colorectal Cancer in Utah, sponsored by the American Cancer Society and the Utah Comprehensive Cancer Control Initiative.
Develop the Utah Hispanic Health Survey.
Monitor the health status of Vermonters on selected health status indicators included in Healthy People 2010 goals.
Provide data on behavioral risk factors for the Vermont 2001 Cancer Registry Report.
Contribute analyses of chronic disease behavioral risk factors for the bimonthly publication Disease Control Bulletin.
Provide prevalence estimates by demographic characteristics for the annual Vermont Health Care Quality Report.
Estimate the prevalence of depression for use by the Vermont Department of Developmental and Mental Health Services.
Contribute analysis of prevalence, behavioral risks, and management factors on diabetes in Vermont.
Provide prevalence estimates and trend analyses for the report Social Well-Being of Vermonters, 2001.
Develop prevalence estimates for the report Community Profiles, 2001.
Contribute prevalence estimates by gender to the New England Coalition for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention.
Provide in-depth analyses of the prevalence of drinking and driving to track the impact of improved DUI legislation in Vermont.
Describe baseline prevalence and patient self-management conditions for the first Diabetes Control Plan of the Diabetes Awareness Wellness Network.
Contribute prevalence estimates and trend analyses for the development of the 1999-2003 Vermont State Health Plan.
Raise public awareness of health risk behaviors through media reports.
Provide data on health risks for an Internet report.
Evaluate and monitor efforts targeting breast and cervical cancer awareness, and Pap smear and mammography screening.
Help peer review organizations assess the prevalence of diabetes among Medicare recipients.
Support needs assessment in HIV education and prevention.
Provide data to inform formulation of HIV intervention strategies, community planning efforts, and program policy development.
Justify and develop grant proposals for CDC programs and federal block grants using data on diabetes, cardiovascular disease prevention, dental health, nutrition, tobacco use control, and physical activity.
Assist health districts in identifying the need for health interventions.
Support health districts in monitoring the effectiveness of intervention and prevention programs.
Disseminate data used to measure progress toward state and local health objectives.
Develop and promote a statewide breast and cervical cancer control and prevention plan.
Measure progress in identifying resources to help eliminate racial and ethnic disparities in health status.
Provide data for The Health of Washington State, a statewide assessment of health that includes measures of 50 health indicators, adapted from Washington State&rsquo;s 1994 Public Health Improvement Plan.
Provide model questions, procedures, analyses, and consultation to support statewide health assessment activities in all 33 local health jurisdictions.
Document the need for and monitor the progress of a prevention program targeting tobacco use.
Develop state-specific estimates of costs attributed to smoking.
Document the need for and monitor the progress of a prevention program targeting tobacco use.
Provide data on progress toward Healthy People 2010 and Healthy West Virginia 2010 objectives in the areas of physical activity, Pap smear and mammography use, hypertension, obesity, nutrition, HIV/AIDS, cholesterol, alcohol abuse, and smoking.
Document the need to develop better linkages among databases for health policy planning.
Analyze and provide state and national data on alcohol consumption for a major, cross-division publication on the epidemiology of substance abuse.
Provide data and analytical support on alcohol consumption for other substance use reports and publications.
Provide data and analytical support for publications on adverse childhood experiences in Wisconsin.
Provide data and interpretation for publications in the area of mental health.
Provide a significant portion of the data to monitor progress toward the goals of the current state health plan, Healthiest Wisconsin 2020.
Analyze data and provide estimates for Health Counts in Wisconsin: Behavioral Risk Factors, an annual report.
Provide information on behavioral risk factors to groups including public health agencies, state agencies, advocacy groups, and health care providers and planners.
Provide trend information on changes in behavioral risk factors across years.
Track trends in cigarette smoking in various demographic groups for several publications.
Provide data to assess the health of minorities in Wisconsin for the Department of Health Services&rsquo; Minority Health Report.
Provide county-level estimates to local health departments where possible for use in monitoring and program development.
Monitor the progress toward Healthy People 2010 objectives, especially leading health indicators.
Determine the baseline for evaluation of organ donor awareness campaign.
Determine the baseline data for a campaign on the signs and symptoms of heart attack and stroke.
Track the insurance status of Wyoming children during implementation of the Children&rsquo;s Health Insurance Program.
Provide data for use in describing the burden of diabetes in Wyoming.
Provide data for the report Assessing the Health Status of Minority Populations in Wyoming.
Provide county estimates for local public health offices on the number of adults with risk factors for diabetes, smoking, smokeless tobacco use, binge drinking, seat belt non-use, obesity, physical inactivity, high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, heart disease, stroke, asthma, arthritis, inadequate cancer screening, and lack of health care coverage.
Provide data for program planning for diabetes, cardiovascular disease, tobacco prevention, breast and cervical cancer screening, HIV/AIDS prevention, immunization, minority health, and arthritis.
Provide descriptive data for use in continuing and new grant applications.
Evaluate outcomes for several strategies pertaining to the Wyoming Department of Health 5-year strategic plan.
